let's get started with a linear algebra
review in this video I want to tell you
what are matrices and one of vectors a
matrix is a rectangular array of numbers
written between square brackets so for
example here is a matrix I'm going to
write a left square bracket and then
write in a bunch of numbers and you know
these could be features for machine
learning problem or it could be data
from somewhere else but for example the
specific values don't matter and then
I'm going to close it with another right
bracket on the right and so that's one
matrix and you know here's another
example the matrix mr right
1 2 3 4 5 6 so matrix is just another
way for saying is a 2d or a 2
dimensional array and the other piece
terminology we need is that the
dimensional matrix is going to be
written as the number of rows times the
number of columns and matrix so
concretely this example on the left this
has 1 2 3 4 rows and it has 2 columns
and so this example on the left I'm
going to say this is a 4 by 2 matrix ok
because this number of rows by number of
columns or four rows two columns this
one on the right this matrix has 2 rows
so that's the first row that's the
second row and it has three columns
right that's the first column that's the
second column that's the third column so
this second Matrix we say it is a 2 by 3
matrix so we say that the dimension of
this matrix is 2 by 3 and sometimes you
also see this written out as in the case
of left you see this written out as our
4 by 2 or concretely what people will
sometimes say is that this matrix is an
element of the set our 4 by 2 so this
this thing here this just means the set
of all matrices that are of dimension 4
by 2 and this thing on the right
sometimes is written out as
Trix that's in our 2x3 so if you ever
see us use be 2 by 3 so if you ever see
something like this near our 4 by 2 or
r2 by 3 people are just referring to
matrices of a specific dimension next
let's talk about how to refer to
specific elements of the matrix and by
matrix elements are those matrix I just
mean the entries or the numbers inside
the matrix so in the standard notation
if a is this matrix here then a
subscript IJ is going to refer to the I
comma J entry meaning the entry in the
matrix is in the I've row and the J
column so for example a11 is we're going
to refer to the entry in the first row
and the first column so that's the first
row in the first column and so you know
a11 is going to be equal to 1 4 0 2
another example a 1 2 is going to refer
to the entry in the first row and the
second column and so a 1 2 is going to
be equal to 1 9 1 just comfortable quick
examples let's see a oh let's say a 3 2
is going to refer to the entry in the
third row and the second column right
because that's V 2 so that's equal to 1
4 3 7 and finally a 4 1 is going to
refer to you know this one right fourth
row first column is equal to 1 4 7
and if hopefully you won't believe you
were to write say what is a 4 3
well that refers to the fourth row and
the third column but you know this
matrix has no third column so this is
undefined you know or you can think of
this in an error so the
there's no such element as a a43 so you
know shouldn't be referring to a four
three so the matrix gives you a way of
letting you quickly organize index and
access lots of data and in case they
seem to be tossing up a lot of concepts
a lot of new notation very rapidly you
don't need to memorize all this but on
the course website where we have posted
the lecture notes we also have all of
these definitions written down so you
can always refer back you know either to
the slides post on the course website go
to the lecture notes if you forget right
well
a 4-1 is that which row which column is
that don't worry about memorizing
everything now you can always refer back
to the written materials on the course
website use that as a reference so
that's what the matrix is next let's
talk about what is a vector a vector
turns out to be a special case of a
matrix a vector is a matrix that has
only one column so if you've an N by 1
matrix then that's a remember right n is
the number of rows and 1 here is number
of columns so so matrix with just one
column is what we call a vector so
here's an example of a vector right
whether I guess I have N equals four
elements here so we also called this
thing now the term for this is that this
is a four dimensional vector just means
that this is a vector with four elements
with four numbers in it and just as knew
earlier four matrices you saw this
notation they are 3 by 2 through 4 into
3 by 2 matrices right for this vector
we're going to refer this to to this as
a vector in the set R 4 so this R 4
again just needs a set of all four
dimensional vectors next let's talk
about how to refer to elements of the
vector we're going to use the notation Y
I to refer to the I've element of the
vector Y so Y is this vector Y subscript
is the I'd element so y1 is the first
element is equal to 460 you know y2
to the second element right 2:32 there's
the first there's a second why three is
equal to three one five and so on and
only y1 through wife or are defined
because this is a four dimensional
vector also it turns out that they're
actually two conventions for how to
index into a vector and here they are
sometimes people will use one index and
sometimes zero index vectors so this
example on the left is a one index
vector where the elements we write as y
1 y 2 y 3 y 4 and this example of the
right is an example of a zero index
vector where we start the indexing of
the elements from zero so the elements
go from y 0 up to Y 3 and this is a
little bit like the arrays of some
programming languages right where the
arrays can either be indexed starting
from 1 so the first element of an array
is sometimes a y1 this one sequences
notation I guess and sometimes you know
this is 0 0 index depending on what
programming language you use so it turns
out that in most of math the one index
version is more common but for a lot of
machine learning applications zero index
vectors gives us a more convenient
notation so what you should usually do
is unless otherwise specified you should
assume that we're using one index
vectors in fact throughout the rest of
these videos on linear algebra review I
will be using one index vectors but just
be aware that when we talk about machine
learning applications sometimes you know
I'll explicitly say when we need to
switch to when we need to use zero index
vectors as well finally by convention
usually when writing matrices and
vectors most people will use uppercase
to refer to matrices so we reuse capital
makes capital letters like a b c you
know x to refer to matrices and usually
we'll use lowercase like a b XY to refer
to either numbers just real numbers or
scalars or two vectors but this isn't
always true but the system
common notation where we use your
lowercase Y to refer to vector and we
usually use uppercase to refer to a
matrix so you now know what are matrices
and vectors next we'll talk about some
of the things you can do with them